one of our top videos of all time is
explaining what the heck i7 i5 and I3
mean so Intel fixed it by making it
worse what exactly is a core Ultra
755h I can't blame you for having no
idea because even Intel doesn't seem to
know how this is going to work when the
entry level mobile and the desktop chips
launch I mean how can one be ultra but
also mid
and what is this just two high
performance cores what is ultra about
that the good news is that Intel's new
meteor Lake chips are legitimately
exciting and naming aside if they are an
indication of where Pat Ginger's Intel
is headed I think we are seeing the
first signs of a reestablishment of
Intel's old dominance exhibit a the Asus
Zenbook 14 OLED it packs a core Ultra 7
155h which means means something um
here's a quick message from our sponsor
first the ridge looking for a stylish
and practical wallet well look at this
they it's the ridge wallet it's got a
minimalist design allows you to carry
all your essential cards in cash without
the bulk check out the link below and
use code Linus to save 10% off your
purchase and get free shipping to
compare against our core Ultra Zen book
we chose a framework 13 investment
disclosure with Intel's last generation
1370 P an Acer Swifty sorry Swift edge
with AMD 7 84u and a 14-in M3 MacBook
more on that one later first let's talk
results straight out of the gate our
meteor Lake core Ultra 755h annihilates
Intel's last gen core i7
1337pcs grade because dang cyberpunk at
1080p on integrated Graphics it is now
playable at 30 FPS average instead of
just 16 not only that it's nipping at
amd's heels rocket League that is almost
69% nicer than last year's model and
wait a minute what's this a clear win
over
AMD well not quite if we look closely at
the all important one% lows the gains
aren't quite as impressive especially in
rocket League where we can't even hear
amd's victory speech because they
already dropped their mic so many times
they broke it but with that said I love
the trajectory that I'm seeing here in
one generation guys we are still on
first generation Intel Arc Intel has
gone from basically unusable to hey this
thing's kind of viable let's bolt it
onto our CPUs so all of a sudden they
can AAA game Dota 2 running on Direct
X11 big win for Arc Shadow the Tomb
Raider another one Total War Pharaoh
another one grid Legends not so much but
Intel as adamant that they are seeing
better results on their system for this
one so hopefully that's just a bug that
needs to be squashed now you may have
noticed Apple's M3 MacBook Pro sneak
leak in into our gaming slides there and
if you consider Apple's push toward the
gaming crowd with their metal API it
makes sense we thought it would only be
fair to choose the most price
appropriate model and see what it can do
in comparison as it turns out even
though we're going through a rosetta or
Vulcan translation layer on both Tomb
Raider and DOTA the answer is
surprisingly well take a look at Dota 2
using
Vulcan okay yes running all the systems
on Vulcan does harm our Windows machines
results a little bit but apple is
beating amd's results both on Vulcan and
on
dx11 like Intel apple is still
struggling with frame time consistency
and you can see that in the 1% low
results but again this is all about
trajectory and Apple has also gone from
gaming loser to gaming Varsity jock
practically overnight speaking of
postsecondary H the Dropout sweater LTT
store.com anyway there's still a giant
blue elephant in the
room and that is non-gaming performance
for core Ultra it's a kind of a mixed
bag let's start with handbreak encoding
Big Buck Bunny at 1080p with h264 in
performance mode we get almost 63 frames
per second that keeps up with both apple
and AMD while beating our framework with
the last gen 1370 P all right but we
step that up to our 4K footage of Red
Dead Redemption 2 and Intel's core Ultra
looks more like a
core somehow it even fell behind the
last gen 1370 P I mean it's okay it's
not like they lose by a lot but
regression from one generation to the
next and look what happens when we
encode with av1 yikes
Apple Rockets into its own performance
class entirely in our Big Buck Bunny
1080p test with coral CH falling into
last place again and 4K Red Dead is a
similar story with apple in the lead and
Intel's latest in dead last one notable
X Factor here though is that AMD pulls
off a clear win not in speed but in file
size so they might be going slower than
Apple but you're going to end up with
near identical quality in files that are
up to 15% smaller than the competition
encoding isn't our core Ultra 7's only
weak point either in our Chrome
Benchmark which is admittedly not the
best Showcase of Apple's typical browser
capabilities sorry Safari Intel's new
hotness loses again in jet stream 2 and
in motion mark it does beat AMD in
speedometer but it loses handily to both
its own predecessor and to Apple oh
speaking of Jetstream we've also got
lwigs Beday in stock on LTT store.com
the swipe and swipe plus that that
stream is sure to leave you nice and
clean every time you do your business do
your business can we just say poop we'll
say poop moving on to cinebench
multicore looking pretty good thanks to
those two extra low power efficiency
cores more on those and the npu later
but the reduced clock speed really seems
to hurt our single core performance and
Puget bench's Photoshop Benchmark
reveals a similar story where the new
chip is actually slower than last chip
inel
what have you done in search of better
onboard gaming performance you've given
us so much but at what
cost not as much as you might think it's
not all doom and gloom on the
productivity side when it comes to szip
compression for example wow the 155h
smokes the competition in both standard
and performance mode and while Photoshop
wasn't great in the Premier Pro
Benchmark it manages a very confident
looking win but wait a second what
happened with Apple well here's the
thing you can find all of these laptops
at the links down below but to save you
a bit of trouble the Asus cost about
$1,300 with 32 gigs of RAM the Acer also
$1,300 with 16 gigs of RAM and our price
competitive MacBook Pro well it's only
sort of price competitive to start with
at
$1,600 but more importantly comes with
only 8 GB of memory which was not enough
to complete this test without the
program crashing now we could spend yet
another $200
and have 16 gigs of ram in it but then
we'd be pitting our Windows machines
against something that costs over 30%
more money which seemed a little silly
when the rest of the results do a pretty
good job of showcasing the M3s potential
and this allows me to make a point to
Apple guys you've done this to yourself
please stop selling 8 gig professional
machines you saved like $15 to $20 on
your bill of materials but on any
workload that goes to a file you are
embarrassing yourselves you're not the
only one Intel didn't do too well in
blender either and you know overall
mediocre improvements or even worse
performance can be super disappointing
when you're testing the new hotness but
it's kind of hard to stay mad because
while one window might have narrowed
it's like an entirely new door has been
flung open because aside from gaming
performance meteor lake has another
really cool trick up its sleeve let's
talk about the the new neural Processing
Unit or npu your current CPU and GPU
combo can already handle AI workloads
like stable diffusion or using
generative fill in Adobe Photoshop so I
don't blame me for asking why exactly do
we need an npu well let me tell you an
npu is an integrated AI accelerator
designed to enable new and enhanced
experiences with the power efficiency
required for mobile platforms we're
going to do a full explainer over on
techwiki but in a nutshell what this
corporate marketing jargon means is that
it helps to alleviate the strain on your
CPU and GPU using processors that are
more optimized for these loads it's kind
of like when ppus or physics processing
units came out almost 20 years ago
except that this time we just skipped
the part where it's a dedicated card and
went straight to adding a tile to the
CPU that lights up when you're doing
speech to text or background audio
removal or whatever okay wait tile ah
this is where meteor Lake gives us an
exciting glimpse into Intel's future
it's their first tile-based CPU
packaging together several pieces of
silicon on one chip rather than using a
traditional monolithic die you've got
your main CPU tile which is built on the
Intel 4 process with redwood Cove peores
and Crestmont ecores an IO tile for con
activity features like Thunderbolt and
additional pcie Lanes a tsmc
manufactured GPU tile for your arc
graphics and then there's the really
interesting tsmc manufactured s so tile
this bad boy has actually got two LP or
low power Island ecores that'll handle
light tasks allowing the main p and
course to be powered off completely to
extend battery life it's got Wi-Fi 6E
which is supposedly upgradeable to Wi-Fi
7 later and Bluetooth 5.4 a knock or
network on chip to interconnect all the
different parts of the S so and they've
even managed to pack the XE media and
display engine here rather than using
the GPU tile for your display out and
simple video decoding tasks it's got
some other stuff like USB 3 and ethernet
audio security Etc and it's got that
shiny new npu block the reason that I'm
so excited about this is that suddenly
Intel can take a more modular approach
to CPU design I mean look at how AMD can
turn a single core complex die design
and then repack pack it into anything
from a basic desktop processor to a
beastly server or workstation chip well
that is similar to what we're looking at
here new Wi-Fi plunk new CPU core
architecture plun that in new arc battle
mage Graphics plun that too tsmc's got a
new node that you haven't figured out
yet go ahead and plon that as well I see
this modular design approach making
Intel far more agile and improving their
competitiveness in a big way come back
to the npu we don't really have a great
Benchmark for testing these things yet
and we don't even have another npu to
drag race it against but in the proon
machine learning inference Benchmark we
got 241 points which is heads and tails
above everything except for the arc
graphics that Intel included on the very
same chip however that doesn't mean it's
a dud what's impressive about this
result is that our power consumption
drops considerably when we push these
workloads onto the npu so it might not
be long before this is the part of your
computer that's doing the lifting
instead of your graphics cards at least
when it comes to light everyday machine
learning tasks which leads us finally
into our discussion about the new naming
conventions because I'm starting to
think they used machine learning to come
up with these all we've got right now is
high in Mobile and the first thing is
that after 15 years of begging Apple
finally convinced Intel to stop calling
things I something
instead we're going to have Intel Core
and Intel Core Ultra followed by what
Intel calls the Brand level these are
somewhat familiar and denote what sort
of power level you can expect three five
and seven for the more mainstream core
processors and then five seven and nine
for the more premium core Ultra chips
and yes that's a lot of overlap bigger
numbers will generally indicate more
cores faster ones and bigger caches
though with smaller ones being the
opposite you guys still with me great
next we've got the processor number
which is broken down into series skew
number and suffix you can think of it
almost like a hard reset of the product
stack so meteor Lake that's what we've
got now that's the first in the series
hence the one in our core Ultra 7
155h converting back to the old system
for a moment this is 15th gen and a 16th
gen replacement of this should be a core
Ultra 72 55h and then so on and so forth
until they change it because who knows
model numbers are arbitrary anyway the
skew number is where it gets a bit more
complicated I know right more
complicated anyway this is where the
numbers get a little more different from
what we're used to the big curveball is
that the skew number can be reused
across different chips within the same
generation more on that later anyway
these denote multiple tiers within a
stack so for example Le the Intel Core
Ultra 5 135h and the 125h are similar
but the 135h has a 100 MHz clock bump
finally there's the suffix I assume that
k and t will be back on the desktop to
denote overclockable and low power chips
but so far we only have mobile and we
only have two letters H or u h chips are
typically more power hungry while U
chips are meant for ultra slim devices
that use less power this also has some
precedent but the problem with this is
that combined with the possibility for
skew number reuse which I mentioned
before it means that you can have no
idea how performant a processor is until
you get to the suffix so Intel claims
that they were trying to simplify things
but in my opinion they have just made
them more confusing okay no Mom sorry
but that core Ultra 7 165 U sucks I need
the core Ultra 7
165h cuz not only does it have more GPU
course it has three times the
performance course and double the cash
there's a lot to like about meteor Lake
and I love Intel's push to reinvest in
process node leadership and build out a
competitive Foundry business I am not an
analyst and this is not Financial advice
but I'm excited about where they're
going what I'm not excited about is
explaining this new naming scheme to
friends and family that are looking to
purchase a new laptop over the next few
years I also excited though to tell you
about our sponsor thanks to grammarly
for sponsoring this video here at lonus
Media Group we're committed to
constantly improving our writing that's
where grammarly steps in grammarly
Secure AI writing partner helps our
business team write better so they can
get their work done faster you can give
your writing greater impact by asking
grammarly to help paraphrase it can make
your sentences sound more persuasive or
sympathetic really anything you want but
that's not all grammarly helps you save
time with their reply feature it can
summarize emails and suggest responses
so you can spend seconds in your inbox
instead of ours it's not fun in there
and grammarly is committed to keeping
your data private and secure they'll
never sell your data so it won't be used
to bombard you with ads and third
parties can't use it to train their AI
sign up for an account and download the
desktop app mobile app and browser
extension for free using our link
grammarly.com
lt2 and if you want to get access to
extra features get 20% off grammarly
premium if you guys enjoyed this video
make sure to check out the last time we
explained Intel's naming scheme was a
simpler time back then back
then back then